---
title: "AWS Cloud Pratictioner CLF-C02"
date: 2024-09-08T15:34:30-04:00
categories:
  - aws
tags:
  - aws
  - cloud
---

## All my anotations that I am doing for taking my first AWS certificate.

## What is Cloud Computing?

Before -> Server Rooms
After -> Data Centers

Advantages

1. Low cost
1. Global scalling
1. Performance
1. Flexibilit
1. Speed
1. Productivity
1. Security

Cloud types

1. IaaS -> Infrastructure as a service
    * Server, Virtual Machine and Storage
1. PaaS -> Platform as a service
    * Hosting and Operational System 
1. SaaS -> Software as a service
    * Applications and e-mail services

Public cloud -> AWS, GCP, Azure
Private cloud -> Banks and Government
Hybrid cloud -> Public and Private mixed


## AWS Support

There are four levels of support.

1. Developer
    * Recommended if you are experimenting or testing AWS.
    * General support.
1. Business 
    * Minimum recommended level for those with production workloads on AWS.
    * Contextual to your use cases.
1. Enterprise on-ramp
    * Recommended for those with business-critical or essential production workloads on AWS.
    * Annual consultative review and guidance according to applications.
1. Enterprise
    * Recommended for those with business and/or mission-critical workloads on AWS.
    * Consultative reviews and guidance based on applications.

## AWS IAM (Identity and Acess Management)

* Users: Individual entities with their own credentials and permissions.
* Groups: Collections of users that share common permissions.
* Roles: Identities with specific permissions that can be assumed by users, services, or applications to access resources temporarily.
* Policies: Define and attach policies (JSON documents) to users, groups, or roles that specify what actions are allowed or denied on AWS resources.

## AWS IAM Identity Center
AWS IAM Identity Center is a service designed to simplify the process of managing user access to AWS accounts and third-party applications. It enables Single Sign-On (SSO), allowing users to log in once to access multiple applications and AWS resources without needing to re-authenticate.

## AWS Organizations
AWS Organizations is a service that allows you to create and manage a hierarchy of AWS accounts, streamline billing, and enforce governance across multiple accounts within your organization. It is designed to simplify account management and provide a centralized approach to governance and security.

1. Centralized account management
1. Hierarquical access control
1. Service control

What are Organizational Units (OUs)?

Organizational Units (OUs) are a way to organize and manage AWS accounts within AWS Organizations. They allow you to create a hierarchical structure for your accounts, grouping them based on business needs, projects, environments, or other criteria.

